What  is the penalty for crossing the border unlawfully?
I would defer to the department of justice on any..aah..
Let's try it this way...who has exclusive juristiction over immigration cases?
Again, it's outside of my lane, but I would say it is CBP or ICE, Sir.
So, it would be federal? It's exclusively federal?
- Yes, Sir!
- Both...and they'really... unless you can think of
something I can't think of...
..see, they're crossing a border unlawfully, or overstaying a visa, would be about the only ways you can get in the
country unlawfully... The only two ways I can think of, either cross one of our territorial boundries, or you're
invited in and you overstay your visa. And those are both exclusively federal.
But, I think you'll agree with me, that almost all of our interactions in life
are with state and local law enforcement...It's not an FBI agent who stops us for speeding...?
It's not an ATF agent who is [..don't get it...], so, if most of our citizen - police encounters are state/local...
...and yet, immigration is exclusively federal, how are the federal officers supposed to know...
...about folks who are not here lawfully?
Sir, the...duh...the Department of Homeland Security  has the PEP program, which I am not at liberty to speak on...
...but I would say, if Congress passed a law that commandeered every local police officer...
...and wanted to pay for that, then I think we would welcome it.
When you said...well, "commandeered" is such a pejorative word...how about we just say "cooperate"?
Well, you don't "commandeer" people for  your Terrorism Task Forces, do you?
You don't "commandeer" people for your  Narcotics Task Forces, do you..? It's called cooperation!
And yet, you have a policy that says that "New Orleans Police Department members shall not make inquiries...
...into an individuals' immigration status". What do you mean by "inquiries"?
Sir, if there is a criminal in New Orleans, and an officer interacts with that person,...
...and there is a criminal warrant, that person...
- See, I don't know what you mean by "criminal"...
...you mean...if...if the person has...if there is probable cause to believe that an offence was commited,
...or if there is already an outstanding warrant?
If there is a state, federal or local warrant, or probable cause, that an officer observes conduct that is criminal...
...they will arrest the person.
- All right, and then they can inquire?
...as to the person's status...?
- Our officers, under this policy, do not inquire about...
...a person's immigration status.
- They can or cannot?
- Under this policy they do not inquire about a person's immigration status.
- Why not?
- Because we believe that, 1) this follows federal law...
- Ahh..how, how..
- And 2)...
- How are the federal law enforcement officers supposed to know who is here unlawfully...
...if your officers don't inquire? They're not the ones that are interacting with them!
- They're not enforcing traffic laws, They don't respond to domestic violence calls.
- The FBI doesn't have juristiction over that...that would be your state and local officers.
- So, how was that supposed to happen?
- Sir, I think your concern is with the broader system, and not with this policy. In New Orleans we arrest...
...every criminal that we interact with. We bring them to the jail...
- I...I love the way you phrase that, you "arrest every criminal you interact with"...
...they're only a criminal after they've had a jury trial, Mr. [don't get it]...they're a suspect, up until that point.
- Correct.